[THEME MUSIC]
>> This is Book Tours,
and I'm Corinne Edwards.
I'd like you to meet one of
the most important messengers
in publishing today.
Important because the
authors on this show
are dedicated to
your personal growth,
make you happier, healthier,
to be the best you can be.
Please welcome
Dr. Judith Orloff,
author of "Dr. Judith Orloff's
Guide to Intuitive Healing".
When we are ill, can
our intuitive selves
teach us how to heal?
Is our knowledge beyond science?
And is it available
to all of us?
Dr. Judith Orloff, a
psychiatrist and intuitive
says yes.
And she tells us how to do it in
her book, "Dr. Judith Orloff's
Guide to Intuitive Healing".
Welcome to Wisdom Television.
>> Oh, it's wonderful
to be on your show.
>> I think what's important
to know here is that
you're a medical doctor.
>> I am.
I'm an MD, 14 years
of medical training.
[LAUGHS]
>> And a psychiatrist.
>> I'm a psychiatrist and also
a practicing intuitive where I
combine intuition with all the
traditional skills I've learned
in medicine.
>> You know, you say that this
is not so strange anymore.
>> Oh, no.
It's the most natural
thing in the world.
When you think of
it, a physician who's
a healer, who's
able to intuit what
goes on in their patients,
able to interpret dreams,
sent subtle energies,
ask for inner guidance,
use all kinds of intuitions
with all the hard science,
it's perfectly natural.
>> You know, one of the things
that fascinated me in your book
is you said that before you have
a new patient coming in, that
you literally get a
fix on their name.
>> Oh, always.
Always.
I use a technique known
as remote viewing, which
is a form of intuitive reading
and tune into their names.
And what I do typically
if a patient calls me up
on the phone, they'll leave
their name on my answering
machine and then I'll
spend a few minutes tuning
into that name and I'll
hold the name very lightly
in my consciousness and see
whatever images, impressions,
sights, smells, sounds, knowings
come to me about the person
and I'll get an overall
history of the patient
before they come in to see
me just based on my intuitive
reading of their name.
>> How unusual is that
for a psychiatrist?
>> [LAUGHS] I think that part
is pretty unusual but I trained
other people in health care to
incorporate intuition into what
they do.
And so this is a technique
I teach everyone.
And it's learnable.
I believe that we
should learn how
to do this type of intuitive
reading as children,
and that this should
be a natural skill.
As human beings, we have no
idea our capacity to see.
And Western culture has
been totally stifled.
We're brought up to
revere the rational mind
and to analyze and to create
and to really revere A plus B
equals C, that
kinds of thinking.
But intuition and seeing
comes deep from the soul.
And it's part of our legacy as
human beings to activate this.
And I think what so many
adults are doing now
is really craving this
intuitive sense of connection
with the soul and the
kind of information that
could come through it.
And so many people want
to really develop this
and to all those people,
I've dedicated my new book.
>> Your experience started
being an intuitive.
You are a psychic child.
>> I was.
I had many premonitions
as a child.
I grew up in Beverly Hills and
I had two physician parents.
And I had 25
physicians in my family
so there is a lot of
linear rational thinking
in my heritage.
And I grew up making
predictions about deaths,
illnesses, earthquakes.
There was one time where
I predicted the suicide
of my parents' friend.
And so by about age
11, I had made so many
of these negative predictions.
My parents forbade me to ever
talk about my premonitions
again at home.
So I grew up thinking there
was something wrong with me,
that I was able to somehow
cause these events,
I was able to predict.
It was so wrong.
Many misconceptions
that children have.
But I grew up ashamed of
my intuitive abilities
and my own healing
path has been learning
how to integrate
intuition into my being
and not to censor that voice
and to be large and incorporate
linear thinking with
intuition, with being a woman,
with being a
psychiatrist, and not
splitting off any aspects of
myself but being totally whole
and totally embracing
my capacity to see
and encouraging
others to do the same.
>> It's pretty unusual speaking
of how far this type of thing
has come that the American
Psychiatric Association has
asked you to be one of
the featured speakers--
>> Oh, yes.
>> --at their convention.
>> Yes, it's an amazing thing.
I'm going to be speaking
about how intuition
can enhance patient care.
And this is wonderful
because it's
saying to me that traditional
psychiatry is beginning
to open up to possibilities
of intuition, of spirituality,
that they're not
just negating it,
and they're opening
their hearts to this.
And so many patients
are wanting this.
What I'm seeing all
around the country
is that patients
all over are wanting
to incorporate
intuition spirituality
into traditional therapy.
That's what they're longing for.
And I think traditional
psychiatry is
beginning to respond to that.
>> It's important to note for
the viewer here that this book
is not written
for psychiatrists.
>> Oh, no, not at all.
>> This book is written for
the garden variety everyday
person--
>> Yes.
[LAUGHS]
>> --who is perhaps very
intuitive as say we all are.
>> Or not, or it's written
for someone who has never had
an intuition in their life and
is interested in developing
that or was never remember
to dream in their life and is
curious about what would it be
like if I had a dream and what
would my dream tell me.
I've worked with so many
people in my private practice
as a psychiatrist who swear
they're not intuitive,
who swear they haven't
been able to dream.
And every single
person I've been
able to teach to tune
into their intuition.
But tuning into intuition is
one thing, that's the easy part.
But getting people to
act on their intuition
is another thing.
[LAUGHS] >> That's harder.
>> But how should we
trust our intuition?
>> Well, I believe that we
must trust our intuition.
Intuition is that still
small voice inside of us
that will tell us the
absolute truth about things.
And usually, in
Western culture, it's
way beneath the rational mind.
And the mind will be blaring.
The thoughts, our
hopes, our dreams,
our laundry list of
things to do, all of that
is what is usually the loudest.
But if we learn to
be quiet, we learn
to go inside of
ourselves, and sense
this quiet intuitive
voice inside,
it will tell us the
truth about things.
And I believe that we must.
In order to make truly informed
decisions about our lives,
we need to trust this intuitive
voice and let it guide us.
I equate it with our
higher self and I see it
as a direct extension
with spirituality.
>> But how do you know it's
just not your crazy imagination?
>> [LAUGHS] The crazy
imagination doesn't speak
in intuitive terms.
The most authentic kinds
of intuitions that I found
comes through either in a
very neutral sense where
you ask a question.
Let's say, what
kind of treatment
should I do for
my health problem?
What kind of treatment
would feel good in my body?
And then the intuition comes
in a very neutral sense.
It's a very informational
sense or else
it comes through with
a compassionate tone.
Oftentimes, intuition will come
through with the most beautiful
sense of compassion behind it.
And whenever there's
a lot of emotion
with a so-called intuition,
I always question it.
Whenever an intuition has a
very high emotional charge,
I will look inside of
myself and say, well, what
in myself is being activated?
And I will not trust it as much.
>> So if it feels impulsive--
>> Yeah.
>> --would you stand
back a little bit?
>> If it feels impulsive--
but intuitions have a sense
of rightness also that we
have to really begin to train
ourselves to trust, it's
a sense of body rightness.
And when you begin
to develop intuition,
you get a sense of this knowing
or rightness in the body.
Some people talk about it as
a gut feeling or that sense
that all is well inside.
And one thing that I teach
people to do in my workshops
and in intuitive
healing is to learn
how to really get inside
of themselves what
an "intuitive yes" feels like
or what an "intuitive no"
feels like.
That's how the beginning.
>> How do you do that?
>> All right.
>> Tell us.
>> The way to really do
this is to ask a question.
Let's say you have a pressing
question about your health.
What should I do about
this health problem?
Should I choose chemotherapy?
Let's say that's the question.
And just pose in a
yes or no format.
Then go inside, get
very quiet, and see
whatever images,
impressions, sights,
smells, sounds, knowings,
body sensations come to you.
And then begin to
really evaluate that.
For me, an intuitive yes feels
like a quickening of energy.
It feels like an excitement.
It feels like my
body is actually
pulled towards something.
There's a sense of
energy and enthusiasm.
Whereas if I tune
in and get a no,
it's as if I'm
hitting a brick wall.
There's no energy, a sinking
feeling or negativity.
So those are--
>> When you're talking about
chemotherapy, don't you?
>> Yes.
>> There's so much fear here.
>> Yes, there is.
>> How do you get the fear
out of the way so you can get
in kind of a reading?
>> Well, what I teach
people to do in the book,
and this is essential, is to
learn how to breathe and to get
to a quiet place inside
underneath the fear.
And this does come
with practice.
Chemotherapy is a
big issue, but it's
important to be able
to go inside whatever
your question is.
You're asking about
a relationship,
you're asking
about chemotherapy,
you're asking about
a career, you're
asking about you have manic
depressive disorder, what
to do about it?
Now, these are big questions.
Everybody has big issues
inside of themselves
and what's so important
about intuition is to learn
how to find a neutral place.
And one thing that
I teach and I think
that's an essential
skill for everyone
is to learn how to
breathe, breathe, breathe,
go in and find yes.
Remember to breathe.
People forget to breathe.
And to go inside and
find that quiet place
and ask to have the fear lifted.
When you go in, ask to be
able to find a neutral place
and just have a sense deep in
the body of what's going on.
And this takes practice in order
to find this neutral place.
But what I found with people
who are making decisions
about their health, they have to
have a body rightness about it
before they go ahead.
To make any panic decisions
about health is a mistake
and I've seen people
do that because doctors
tend to pressure
patients into decisions.
But if you go inside and
your body says yes, I
might be scared of
chemotherapy but on some level,
it really does feel right to me.
And then to trust
that and to go ahead.
It's a training process.
>> The trust part is the part
that's difficult, I think.
>> It is difficult. I went
through a lot of my life not
trusting my intuitions.
>> Hold that thought for just
one minute because this is
fascinating.
We're talking did after
Judith Orloff about her book
called "Dr. Judith Orloff's
Guide to Intuitive Healing".
Stay with us, you don't want to
miss one second on this show.
We'll be right back.
[THEME MUSIC]
We're talking to
Dr. Judith Orloff
about her book, "Dr. Judith
Orloff's Guide to Intuitive
Healing".
Welcome back.
>> Oh, great to be back.
>> You said there are five
steps to physical, emotional,
and sexual wellness.
>> Yes, there are five steps
I go through in the book
and these are essential
to intuitive healing.
The five steps are noticing
your beliefs about healing,
being in your body--
>> All right, so let's stop
right there because as we ended
the last segment--
>> Yes.
>> You said that you didn't
trust your intuitive feelings.
>> For many years,
I do now implicitly.
But I went through a
phase where I would even
tune in and get intuitions and
I would see what they were,
but yet I wouldn't
listen to them
because I didn't like the
answers I was getting.
And this is very human.
When I work with
patients, this happens.
I could train them to get in
touch with their intuitions
yet they don't follow them.
[LAUGHS]
And what I found is that by
not listening to my intuitions,
only bad things happened.
And by listening
to my intuitions,
only good things happen.
So I think people
have to make a choice.
I mean, I think it's really
a revolutionary decision
to make a life founded
on intuitions, to make
a decision based on a dream, or
make a decision based on a gut
feeling.
I went into medicine
based on a dream I had
and the dream told
me in my early 20s
that I was to become
a psychiatrist,
to get my MD in order to have
the credentials to legitimize
intuition and medicine.
It was a very clear dream
and it happened at a time
when I had no intention
of going into medicine.
>> You were a hippie.
>> I was.
I was a hippie.
I was working in the tile
department in the main company
in Los Angeles.
I was living with my
boyfriend in Venice Beach
and I wanted to write.
I was always very artistic.
>> Your mother and father
were home taking the gas pipe
of their brilliant daughter eh?
>> Uh-huh, uh-huh.
But I had this dream
at a time when I
had no desire in my mind to go.
But I was trusting my
intuition enough at that point
to at least give it a chance.
So I enrolled in one
course in a junior college
just to see how it would go.
And one course
became two, became
14 years of medical training.
And so there was a
dream that propelled me
through my medical
training and helped
me find my true
calling at a time
when I had no idea
that's what it was.
And so what I'm proposing
an intuitive feeling
is that people make
decisions based on dreams,
that people make decisions based
on the deepest gut feeling.
And to counter whatever popular
opinion against that that's
going on because people
in Western culture
don't understand the concept.
And most people don't
understand the concept
of making a decision based
on a revelatory dream.
The aboriginals
would understand it.
Dream time, they revere
more than waking time.
Or the Native Americans
would understand it.
They go on vision quest to
find their true calling,
to find answers that
are deep within the body
and in the soul.
That's what I'm proposing.
That's what I believe that
intuition can bring us to,
that deepest part of ourselves.
>> What about some of the
dreams you have that are really
bizarre?
>> [LAUGHS]
>> I have a girlfriend who is
also a psychiatrist by the way,
she asked me to ask
you about her dream.
She had a dream
night before last
that she was helping these
two huge animals birth--
their offspring.
She said, "what does that mean?"
That's like reading your book.
What would that mean to
you as a psychiatrist?
>> That means she needs to get
out under the full moon and do
some dancing.
>> OK.
He does like to dance.
>> Oh, yes.
But out on the Earth and bring
her primal side forth more,
because she's helping the
birth of this in herself.
And that's a true dream
telling her to do this
and to not just stand her mind.
And to also bring that
sensibility with her patients.
To not just stay in the
mind or the intellect.
To bring in that primal
sense of intuition
and knowing and more wildness
in with their patients.
And the dream of saying
that she wants to do that.
>> It works with children.
>> Oh, good, good.
Teach them.
>> So she should dance
more with the kids.
>> Oh, dance, play, but tune
into the primal forces more.
>> But when we had a bizarre
dreams, something like that,
I mean, how do you, how
do you interpret it?
>> No dream is bizarre to me.
Dreaming is my most potent form
of intuition, always has been,
since I've been a little girl.
And there is no dream
that isn't full of truth.
Every dream.
I just take on face
value, and I listen to.
I have a patient who argues
with me a lot about that,
and she's constantly trying to
prove to me that dreams are not
as truthful as I say.
And one time she was
having a repetitive dream
about broccoli.
And she says, you see?
Now this dream means nothing.
And to me, if I had a
dream about broccoli,
I would eat broccoli to
see if I felt better.
You see.
>> You would take
a lot of Vitamin C?
>> Yeah, yeah, no, I would,
because dreams can offer
information about nutrition.
They can be very factual,
very down to Earth.
Or they can be very metaphoric.
Learning how to
interpret dreams is
something I go
through in the book,
and it's really important.
As a beginner I always
suggest that people go out
and buy "Man and His
Symbols" by Carl Jung.
That's a good beginner
about dream symbols.
But you have to be very careful
about defining dream symbols
too carefully, because
what could mean something
to one person would be very
different than another.
And I'll give you an example.
There was one period where
I was going through my life
where nothing was working out.
I couldn't even get
the plumber to come.
I couldn't organize.
Everything was falling through.
And I was getting
very frustrated
and I was complaining a lot.
I was getting very ungrateful.
About that time, I
had a dream that I
was diagnosed with leukemia.
And in the dream,
I was so terrified
that my life was going
to be taken from me.
And I woke up in the
morning just so relieved
that this wasn't the
reality in my waking life.
All right, how did I know
that wasn't a psychic dream?
At that moment, I tuned
in and I asked myself,
is this my future?
And I went into look and
I got, definitely no.
What this dream
was, was a wake-up
call for me to be
grateful about my life.
And it was the most
compassionate way
the universe could have
really, and the quickest way
that the universe could
have given that to me.
So I woke up.
From that moment on, I was
totally grateful to be alive
and my attitude
shifted at that moment.
So that was a
healing dream for me.
I had a patient
who very soon after
had a dream that she was
going to get leukemia,
only her dream was, that her
son was injecting cancer cells
into her body in the hospital.
Now, the facts of her life were
that her son was a recovering
alcoholic, actually
wasn't recovering,
he was a active alcoholic
and he was living at home
and she was enabling
him and giving him money
and he was abusive to her.
And she felt from
the dream that if she
didn't make some
changes with her son,
that she was at risk
for getting cancer.
>> He was killing her.
>> Yeah, he was
killing her, basically.
And from that dream,
she went to Al-Anon,
she started making important
changes in her life,
and she got the son
out of the house.
And all of this.
And she feels that if she
didn't do that, that she
was at risk for getting sick.
So these are two ways
that leukemia can come in
for two different people.
And so I'm giving you this
as an example of not getting
too fixated on a
meaning for a symbol,
because with each
person, you have
to take the symbology according
to what they're going through
in their lives.
>> You know, some of the dreams
we have a very embarrassing,
because they're very
sexually-oriented.
>> Uh-huh, uh-huh.
>> Now what would that mean?
>> Well, I believe that there's
a deep yearning in our psyche
to awaken our sexuality
and our erotic sense,
and connect that with the
rest of our spirituality.
So the dreams that
come through, which
are so-called embarrassing, are
really a welcome to awaken that
part of ourselves.
So many people on the spiritual
path disregard sexuality.
They stay in their hearts,
they develop the connection
with intuition, but
they don't bring
about the energy of the
lower chakras in the body.
And that's why I wanted to
devote a third of "Intuitive
Healing" to sexual wellness,
as so much a part of us being
alive is being open
to our sexuality
as a reflection of
our spiritual energy.
It's all one river
going up and down us.
And if we're open
to the total flow,
then the vibrance of
health comes through.
>> Well, one of the things you
talk about is that sexuality is
more than having intercourse.
Sexuality is an
awareness of your body.
>> Oh, it's a sensual awareness.
Well, intuition is a sensual
awareness of the body.
It's about being open
to the body's signals.
It's about being in the body.
Being aware of sensual sexual
energy and everything else.
And so sexuality and
sensuality to me,
means being in touch
with the erotic forces
as they flow through
us at any given moment.
And that's a function
of intuitive awakening,
of being open to the subtle
energies in the erotic forces.
So even if someone is not in
a relationship for many years,
it's still very
possible to connect
with that sense of the erotic
and deep sense of sexuality
as it flows through you, just
as you walk down the street.
And you can do that
through meditation
as a way of activating
erotic energy.
Or opening up
intuition and getting
connected with the
erotic forces of nature
where sexuality flows through
nature into our own bodies.
And I go into this in pretty
much great detail in the book.
>> Well, you also do some
very practical things in that
section about talking about
the differences between men
and women.
>> Ah, yes.
>> The hang-ups that men have
and the hang-ups that women
have.
Heard somebody say the other
day, if you're constantly
asking your boyfriend or
your husband, am I fat,
you probably are.
What do you think about that?
What are the differences?
>> Well, I think that
each of us, men and women,
contain both the masculine
and the feminine within us.
And that men are not more
powerful than women and women
are not more powerful than men.
And true power comes of
balancing both forces
within us, and not just going
into either the masculine
or the feminine.
True power and the evolution
of men and women as I see it,
is being able to balance
and embody both the feminine
in the masculine, and then
model that for children.
And I think this is the
whole new kind of sexuality.
And men I'm seeing
all over the country,
are wanting to come
into their hearts more.
And it's very different than
just approaching sexuality
from a mechanical point of view
or from just as a first chakra
or sexual point of view.
The evolution, as I see it, is
combining the heart, sexuality
and intuition together, so
that when you make love,
you can bring all that energy.
And with a partner, and
I know so many people
are incorporating spirituality,
sexuality, intuition
and every other sense
of the universe,
into their lovemaking.
Or their lovemaking just as
they walk into the street.
Lovemaking with the Earth,
lovemaking with the world.
It's not just about
another human being.
It's a way of being in a
moment to moment basis.
And that's what
intuition can bring.
>> And yet there's a lot of
emphasis on being celibate
if you're really
going to be spiritual.
>> Well, that's only
in certain traditions.
So I think they're more and
more traditions that are
teaching being in the world.
And certainly if you look at
the discipline of tantra, which
is a form of activating
spiritual and sexual energy,
it's about being all
of that in the world.
It's true, certain traditions
promote celibacy and just.
>> I see in the new age
community that people are
always saying no,
I'm celibate now,
I'm concentrating
on my spirituality.
>> Yeah.
>> And you just knock
that apart in this book.
You said that's, it's
all a part of everything.
>> Well, it is.
But I want to say that that is
a choice for certain people.
And if that's where
they want to go,
I totally respect that choice.
But if somebody is
interested about exploring
all of the energies
while here on Earth,
opening up to their intuition
and being in a world, sexuality
is a way to really explore
everything in our bodies.
And a lot of people are
interested in doing that.
They're curious about energies.
I am curious about everything.
And so part of my experience.
>> I can feel that.
>> Part of my spiritual
path is exploring sexuality,
seeing how is
connected to the heart.
It's always the heart.
The heart, the heart, the heart
is the center of the universe,
the center of intuition.
Whenever I tune in, it's
always from the heart.
Whenever I explore sexuality,
it's always from the heart.
And the way I teach
intuition from this book
is always from the heart.
And then from the heart, we
can explore our sexuality
and it takes on so
many new dimensions
than what we're traditionally
taught in Western culture.
It's a travesty what we're
taught about sexuality.
You look at the
women's magazines.
You see surfaces.
You don't see any kind of depth.
And certainly from an
intuitive point of view,
when you begin to see
energy and sense energy,
you imagine all
the bright colors
around everyone and all
the beautiful energy.
>> Well, we want to
hear more about that.
You're going to
have to come back.
Because you've got so much
wonderful information to share.
We've been talking
to Dr. Judith Orloff
about her wonderful
book, written for you.
It's called "Dr. Judith Orloff's
Guide to Intuitive Healing."
As I always tell
you around here,
we bring you the most important
new authors in publishing today
on this show.
These are authors who
really care about you,
so keep coming back.